Following a series of earthquakes, the Pontiff of [[Vulca]], [[Io Celsus]], visited [[Andun]] to divine what portents the earthquakes entail. [[Io Celsus|Io]] quickly returned to [[Moenia Maris]] after her divinations without communicating anything to the people of [[Andun]]. In truth, it was at this time that [[Io Celsus]] turned coat to join [[Vulca]]. Not two days later, however, they received communications from [[Moenia Maris|the capital]] that the Supreme Pontiff, [[Hermes Vatinius]], was to visit and that there was to be a huge festival in two weeks' time.

The festival was truly like no other seen in [[Portus Munificus]], and people were glad to have [[Hermes Vatinius|the Supreme Pontiff]] visiting. However, during the festivities, a man dressed in the garb of the priesthood of [[Vulca]] came and prophesied doom, warning the people to flee [[Andun]]. The man was quickly detained and his words were soon forgotten.

At the end of the festivities, a grand parade from the harbor to the amphitheater ensued as [[Hermes Vatinius|the Supreme Pontiff]]'s procession left their ships. Everyone enters the amphitheater afterwards to watch a play depicting the story of the First Pontiff, who brought down the Demon King. After the play, [[Hermes Vatinius|the Supreme Pontiff]] gave a speech to encourage the people to not fear the earthquakes. He then makes an example out of the man who prophesied doom, naming him a deceiver and a devil-worshiper, and beheads him on the spot.

It is at this moment that the volcano erupts, and in the aftermath of the resulting pyroclastic flow, the vast majority of [[Portus Munificus]], as well as the rest of [[Andun]], perish. Notably, [[Hermes Vatinius]], the Supreme Pontiff, as well as the previous Pontiff of [[Belua & Ultor]], fall victim to this calamity.